---
title: Basics
---

## Intro
The `@polkadot/api-contract` comes with 4 general helpers and has `*Rx`-based versions for the users of the `ApiRx` version of the API. However here we will focus only on the `ApiPromise`-based version of the helpers, in much the same way as the [API documentation](../../api/intro.md). 
The four main interfaces provided are:

- [CodePromise](code.md) - upload and instantiate a WASM blob
- [BlueprintPromise](blueprint.md) - instantiate a contract from on-chain code
- [ContractPromise](contract.read.md) -  interact with on-chain contract instances, making read calls and executing transactions 
- Abi - encode / decode contract messages and arguments

## Prerequisites
1. **A working API instance** connected to a compatible Substrate Node. 
    Read the section on [Creating an API instance](../../api/start/create.md) if you haven't done so already. The following examples assume you are connected to a compatible chain. For development purposes it's generally preferred to use a local development network, that way you can swap and purge contracts while developing. We recommend running the latest [Substrate Contracts Node](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-contracts-node#download-binary) binary.

2. **Contract metadata + wasm code.**
The contract metadata and the wasm code are generated by building the contract with a tool like [cargo-contract](https://github.com/paritytech/cargo-contract) or [solang](https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/solang#build-for-substrate). These tools also generate a bundled `<name>.contract` file which is just the `metadata.json` with an extra field containing the wasm code.
**As metadata, all helpers accept either a JSON string, a parsed JSON or an `Abi` instance.**



## Events
Events that happen with contract instantiation or interaction can be captured similarly to [transfer events](../../api/examples/promise/transfer-events.md)

## Deploying code

Now that we have a good overview of what is available and the use of each interface, a development chain running and a compiled contract, we can jump into actual real-world usage. [let's deploy a WASM contract and start using it](code.md).
